---
layout: post
title:  Risk analysis of 2020
author: Takashi MATSUSHITA
categories: miscellanea
---
As usual, analyses of top risks of the year have been published by various institutes. "G-Zero world", coined by Eurasia Group in 2011 is becoming more real, observing conflicts and rivalry among authoritaritan and democratic nations, Islam, Christianity and so on.

Here is the top risks of the year picked up by Eurasia Group and a Japanese think tank as food for thought.

[Euraisa Group](https://www.eurasiagroup.net/files/upload/Top_Risks_2020_Report_1.pdf):
  1. Rigged!: Who governs the US?
  1. The Great Decoupling
  1. US/China
  1. MNCs not to the rescue
  1. India gets Modi-fied
  1. Geopolitical Europe
  1. Politics vs. economics of climate change
  1. Shia Crescendo
  1. Discontent in Latin America
  1. Turkey<br/>
  Red Herrings
  * The new axis of evil
  * Populist policies in the developed world
  * Post-Brexit

[PHP Research Institute](https://thinktank.php.co.jp/wp-content/uploads/2018/12/2019_PHP_Global_Risk_Analysis.pdf)
  1. Full-Blown US-China Competition for High-Tech Supremacy
  1. Cyber Attacks on International Sports Festivals; Extended Islamic State Influence Online
  1. Growing Risk of Inadvertent Military Incidents Due to Intensifying US-China Rivalry
  1. Recession in the US Economy Triggered by Multiple Factors
  1. "Our Country First" Nationalism: The Beginning of the End for Europe?
  1. Russia's Influence-Extending Efforts Amid Superpower Competition
  1. Opportunities and Threats Arising from China's Sudden Change of Attitude
  1. Increasing Illusions of Korean Reunification and Neutrality and a Crisis in the US-Korean Alliance
  1. Instability in the Middle East Triggered by US Pressure on Iran
  1. Latin America as the New Front in US-China Competition to Redefine Hegemony

Fragmenting Europe with increasing Muslim influence, Chinese military expansion in East/South China sea, non-scientific enthusiasms on global climate change, "axis of evil" including Iran, North Korea, Venezuela, Syria etc. will have impact on Japan as well but the media and the diet are making much ado about nothing, like an ostrich burying its head in the sand.

Need to focus on information that matters. Technologies will be important to keep advantage, as always.
